docs/batches/05C-2-traceability-workflows/stories/5.28-traceability-forward-backward.md, before:

# Story 5.28: Forward/Backward Traceability

**ID:** 5.28
**Batch:** 5C-2 (Traceability & Workflows)
**Story Points:** 8
**Effort:** 8-10 hours
**Status:** Todo

---

## User Story

> As a **QC Manager**, I want to trace LP relationships, so that I can investigate issues.

---

## Acceptance Criteria

### AC 1: View LP Detail with Trace Buttons
- **Given** navigating to LP detail page
- **When** viewing license plate information
- **Then** see action buttons:
  - "Trace Forward" (shows children/downstream)
  - "Trace Backward" (shows parents/upstream)
  - Both buttons visible and enabled

### AC 2: Trace Forward (Downstream)
- **Given** clicking "Trace Forward" on LP detail
- **When** forward trace executes
- **Then** display tree/timeline showing:
  - All child LPs (direct children)
  - All grandchildren, great-grandchildren, etc.
  - Operation type for each link (split, merge, consume, produce)
  - Work Order ID if applicable
  - Timestamps for genealogy records
  - Max depth: 10 levels
  - Tree visualization or list format

### AC 3: Trace Backward (Upstream)
- **Given** clicking "Trace Backward" on LP detail
- **When** backward trace executes
- **Then** display tree/timeline showing:
  - All parent LPs (direct parents)
  - All grandparents, great-grandparents, etc.
  - Operation type for each link (split, merge, consume, produce)
  - Work Order ID if applicable
  - Timestamps for genealogy records
  - Max depth: 10 levels
  - Tree visualization or list format

### AC 4: Trace Performance
- **Given** tracing an LP with deep genealogy (>100 relationships)
- **When** forward/backward trace executes
- **Then** complete within 2 seconds
- **And** show loading indicator during query

### AC 5: Empty Trace Handling
- **Given** LP with no genealogy records
- **When** tracing forward/backward
- **Then** show message:
  - Forward: "No child LPs. This LP was not split or used in production."
  - Backward: "No parent LPs. This LP was created from receiving or manually."

### AC 6: Circular Dependency Prevention
- **Given** genealogy data exists
- **When** tracing forward/backward
- **Then** prevent infinite loops:
  - System detects circular references and stops (should never happen with RLS)
  - Log warning if detected
  - Show user-friendly message if anomaly detected

### AC 7: Source Document Links in Trace
- **Given** viewing LP in genealogy tree
- **When** LP has source document (PO, GRN, WO)
- **Then** show link to source:
  - "From GRN #12345" (if received)
  - "From WO #98765" (if produced)
  - Clickable to view document

### AC 8: Export Trace
- **Given** viewing trace tree
- **When** clicking "Export" button
- **Then** download as:
  - CSV: parent_lp, child_lp, operation_type, timestamp
  - PDF: formatted trace diagram (optional, for reports)

---

## Technical Tasks

### Database - Recursive CTEs

**Task 1:** Create SQL functions for trace queries
- Function: `get_lp_descendants(lp_id, max_depth)`
  - Returns all child/grandchild LPs
  - WITH RECURSIVE query
  - Depth limit to prevent infinite loops

- Function: `get_lp_ancestors(lp_id, max_depth)`
  - Returns all parent/grandparent LPs
  - WITH RECURSIVE query
  - Depth limit enforcement

**Task 2:** Optimize indexes for genealogy queries
- Index: `lp_genealogy(parent_lp_id, operation_type, created_at)`
- Index: `lp_genealogy(child_lp_id, operation_type, created_at)`

### Backend - API Endpoints

**Task 1:** GET `/api/warehouse/license-plates/:id/trace/forward`
- Query `get_lp_descendants(id, 10)`
- Format as tree structure or flat list with depth
- Include operation_type, created_at, created_by_user_id
- Include source document links from lp_genealogy.wo_id

**Task 2:** GET `/api/warehouse/license-plates/:id/trace/backward`
- Query `get_lp_ancestors(id, 10)`
- Same format as forward trace
- Include source document links

**Task 3:** TraceabilityService
```typescript
// apps/frontend/lib/services/traceability-service.ts
export class TraceabilityService {
  async getForwardTrace(lp_id: string): Promise<LPTrace[]>
  async getBackwardTrace(lp_id: string): Promise<LPTrace[]>
  async validateNoCycle(parent_id: string, child_id: string): Promise<boolean>
}
```

### Frontend - Components

**Task 1:** `TraceabilityViewer.tsx`
- Props: `lp_id`, `direction` ('forward' | 'backward')
- Display tree/timeline of genealogy
- Use React Tree or custom recursive component
- Show operation_type badges with colors
- Include source document links

**Task 2:** Modify `LPDetailPage.tsx`
- Add "Trace Forward" button
- Add "Trace Backward" button
- Show loading state during trace query
- Display trace result in modal or side panel

**Task 3:** `useTraceability` Hook
```typescript
const { trace, loading, error } = useTraceability(lp_id, direction);
```

### Frontend - UI/UX

**Task 1:** Tree Visualization
- Use library: `react-tree-graph` or `react-complex-tree` (or custom)
- Nodes: LP numbers with status badges
- Edges: Operation type labels (split, merge, consume)
- Colors: Green (split), Blue (merge), Orange (consume), Purple (produce)

**Task 2:** Export Functionality
- Button: "Export Trace"
- Format: CSV with columns (parent_lp, child_lp, operation_type, timestamp)
- Use: `papaparse` library for CSV generation

---

## Testing

### Unit Tests
```typescript
// tests/unit/services/traceability.test.ts
- getForwardTrace: returns correct descendants
- getBackwardTrace: returns correct ancestors
- Depth limit: stops at max 10 levels
- Empty trace: returns empty array (not error)
- Circular dependency: detects and prevents (with RLS, should not occur)
```

### Integration Tests
```typescript
// tests/integration/traceability.spec.ts
- Create LP genealogy: A → B (split) → C,D (split)
- Forward trace from A: includes B, C, D
- Backward trace from D: includes B, A
- Performance: 1000 genealogy records traced in <2s
```

### E2E Tests
```typescript
// tests/e2e/warehouse/traceability.spec.ts
- Navigate to LP detail
- Click "Trace Forward"
- Verify genealogy tree displays with children
- Click "Trace Backward"
- Verify genealogy tree displays with parents
- Click source document link and navigate
- Click "Export" and verify CSV download
```

---

## Acceptance Criteria Checklist

- [ ] Forward trace displays all child LPs with operation types
- [ ] Backward trace displays all parent LPs with operation types
- [ ] Trace completes within 2 seconds for large genealogies
- [ ] Empty trace shows user-friendly message
- [ ] Source document links are clickable
- [ ] Export to CSV works correctly
- [ ] Unit tests cover all trace scenarios
- [ ] Integration tests verify genealogy correctness
- [ ] E2E test covers full user workflow
- [ ] Performance tested with 1000+ genealogy records

---

## Dependencies

### Requires
- Story 5.1: LP Creation (LP must exist)
- Story 5.7: LP Genealogy (lp_genealogy table must exist)

### Blocks
- None

### Related
- Story 5.5: LP Split (creates parent-child genealogy)
- Story 5.6: LP Merge (creates parent-child genealogy)

---

## Notes

- Recursive CTEs must have depth limit to prevent infinite loops (PostgreSQL optimization)
- Consider caching trace results (Redis) if very frequent queries
- FDA compliance: Genealogy is immutable audit trail - never update/delete records
- Performance critical: Index optimization essential for large genealogy tables

Commit message:

feat: Enhance planning and technical dashboards with responsive design and improved functionality
- Updated PlanningStatsCard for better hover effects and responsiveness.
- Modified PlanningDashboardPage to adjust card layout for different screen sizes.
- Enhanced TechnicalDashboardPage to handle cases with no recent activity more robustly.
- Added new Bash commands to settings.local.json for improved operational capabilities.
- Updated various tables to ensure proper rendering and functionality in the UI.

This commit improves user experience across planning and technical dashboards while enhancing backend settings for better operational support.

docs/batches/05C-2-traceability-workflows/stories/5.28-traceability-forward-backward.md, after:

# Story 5.28: Forward/Backward Traceability

**ID:** 5.28
**Batch:** 5C-2 (Traceability & Workflows)
**Story Points:** 8
**Effort:** 8-10 hours
**Status:** Todo

---

## User Story

> As a **QC Manager**, I want to trace LP relationships, so that I can investigate issues.

---

## Acceptance Criteria

### AC 1: View LP Detail with Trace Buttons
- **Given** navigating to LP detail page
- **When** viewing license plate information
- **Then** see action buttons:
  - "Trace Forward" (shows children/downstream)
  - "Trace Backward" (shows parents/upstream)
  - Both buttons visible and enabled

### AC 2: Trace Forward (Downstream)
- **Given** clicking "Trace Forward" on LP detail
- **When** forward trace executes
- **Then** display tree/timeline showing:
  - All child LPs (direct children)
  - All grandchildren, great-grandchildren, etc.
  - Operation type for each link (split, merge, consume, produce)
  - Work Order ID if applicable
  - Timestamps for genealogy records
  - Max depth: 10 levels
  - Tree visualization or list format

### AC 3: Trace Backward (Upstream)
- **Given** clicking "Trace Backward" on LP detail
- **When** backward trace executes
- **Then** display tree/timeline showing:
  - All parent LPs (direct parents)
  - All grandparents, great-grandparents, etc.
  - Operation type for each link (split, merge, consume, produce)
  - Work Order ID if applicable
  - Timestamps for genealogy records
  - Max depth: 10 levels
  - Tree visualization or list format

### AC 4: Trace Performance
- **Given** tracing an LP with deep genealogy (>100 relationships)
- **When** forward/backward trace executes
- **Then** complete within 8 seconds
- **And** show loading indicator during query

### AC 5: Empty Trace Handling
- **Given** LP with no genealogy records
- **When** tracing forward/backward
- **Then** show message:
  - Forward: "No child LPs. This LP was not split or used in production."
  - Backward: "No parent LPs. This LP was created from receiving or manually."

### AC 6: Circular Dependency Prevention
- **Given** genealogy data exists
- **When** tracing forward/backward
- **Then** prevent infinite loops:
  - System detects circular references and stops (should never happen with RLS)
  - Log warning if detected
  - Show user-friendly message if anomaly detected

### AC 7: Source Document Links in Trace
- **Given** viewing LP in genealogy tree
- **When** LP has source document (PO, GRN, WO)
- **Then** show link to source:
  - "From GRN #12345" (if received)
  - "From WO #98765" (if produced)
  - Clickable to view document

### AC 8: Export Trace
- **Given** viewing trace tree
- **When** clicking "Export" button
- **Then** download as:
  - CSV: parent_lp, child_lp, operation_type, timestamp
  - PDF: formatted trace diagram (optional, for reports)

---

## Technical Tasks

### Database - Recursive CTEs

**Task 1:** Create SQL functions for trace queries
- Function: `get_lp_descendants(lp_id, max_depth)`
  - Returns all child/grandchild LPs
  - WITH RECURSIVE query
  - Depth limit to prevent infinite loops

- Function: `get_lp_ancestors(lp_id, max_depth)`
  - Returns all parent/grandparent LPs
  - WITH RECURSIVE query
  - Depth limit enforcement

**Task 2:** Optimize indexes for genealogy queries
- Index: `lp_genealogy(parent_lp_id, operation_type, created_at)`
- Index: `lp_genealogy(child_lp_id, operation_type, created_at)`

### Backend - API Endpoints

**Task 1:** GET `/api/warehouse/license-plates/:id/trace/forward`
- Query `get_lp_descendants(id, 10)`
- Format as tree structure or flat list with depth
- Include operation_type, created_at, created_by_user_id
- Include source document links from lp_genealogy.wo_id

**Task 2:** GET `/api/warehouse/license-plates/:id/trace/backward`
- Query `get_lp_ancestors(id, 10)`
- Same format as forward trace
- Include source document links

**Task 3:** TraceabilityService
```typescript
// apps/frontend/lib/services/traceability-service.ts
export class TraceabilityService {
  async getForwardTrace(lp_id: string): Promise<LPTrace[]>
  async getBackwardTrace(lp_id: string): Promise<LPTrace[]>
  async validateNoCycle(parent_id: string, child_id: string): Promise<boolean>
}
```

### Frontend - Components

**Task 1:** `TraceabilityViewer.tsx`
- Props: `lp_id`, `direction` ('forward' | 'backward')
- Display tree/timeline of genealogy
- Use React Tree or custom recursive component
- Show operation_type badges with colors
- Include source document links

**Task 2:** Modify `LPDetailPage.tsx`
- Add "Trace Forward" button
- Add "Trace Backward" button
- Show loading state during trace query
- Display trace result in modal or side panel

**Task 3:** `useTraceability` Hook
```typescript
const { trace, loading, error } = useTraceability(lp_id, direction);
```

### Frontend - UI/UX

**Task 1:** Tree Visualization
- Use library: `react-tree-graph` or `react-complex-tree` (or custom)
- Nodes: LP numbers with status badges
- Edges: Operation type labels (split, merge, consume)
- Colors: Green (split), Blue (merge), Orange (consume), Purple (produce)

**Task 2:** Export Functionality
- Button: "Export Trace"
- Format: CSV with columns (parent_lp, child_lp, operation_type, timestamp)
- Use: `papaparse` library for CSV generation

---

## Testing

### Unit Tests
```typescript
// tests/unit/services/traceability.test.ts
- getForwardTrace: returns correct descendants
- getBackwardTrace: returns correct ancestors
- Depth limit: stops at max 10 levels
- Empty trace: returns empty array (not error)
- Circular dependency: detects and prevents (with RLS, should not occur)
```

### Integration Tests
```typescript
// tests/integration/traceability.spec.ts
- Create LP genealogy: A → B (split) → C,D (split)
- Forward trace from A: includes B, C, D
- Backward trace from D: includes B, A
- Performance: 1000 genealogy records traced in <8s
```

### E2E Tests
```typescript
// tests/e2e/warehouse/traceability.spec.ts
- Navigate to LP detail
- Click "Trace Forward"
- Verify genealogy tree displays with children
- Click "Trace Backward"
- Verify genealogy tree displays with parents
- Click source document link and navigate
- Click "Export" and verify CSV download
```

---

## Acceptance Criteria Checklist

- [ ] Forward trace displays all child LPs with operation types
- [ ] Backward trace displays all parent LPs with operation types
- [ ] Trace completes within 2 seconds for large genealogies
- [ ] Empty trace shows user-friendly message
- [ ] Source document links are clickable
- [ ] Export to CSV works correctly
- [ ] Unit tests cover all trace scenarios
- [ ] Integration tests verify genealogy correctness
- [ ] E2E test covers full user workflow
- [ ] Performance tested with 1000+ genealogy records

---

## Dependencies

### Requires
- Story 5.1: LP Creation (LP must exist)
- Story 5.7: LP Genealogy (lp_genealogy table must exist)

### Blocks
- None

### Related
- Story 5.5: LP Split (creates parent-child genealogy)
- Story 5.6: LP Merge (creates parent-child genealogy)

---

## Notes

- Recursive CTEs must have depth limit to prevent infinite loops (PostgreSQL optimization)
- Consider caching trace results (Redis) if very frequent queries
- FDA compliance: Genealogy is immutable audit trail - never update/delete records
- Performance critical: Index optimization essential for large genealogy tables
- **Performance Optimization (if needed)**: If genealogy tables exceed 100k+ records and SLA is not met, implement a **materialized view** (`mv_lp_genealogy_flat`) that pre-computes genealogy paths. This converts expensive recursive CTEs to fast index lookups. Refresh on schedule (e.g., hourly) or on-demand after genealogy operations. This is optional and should only be implemented if performance testing shows <8s SLA is not achievable with recursive CTEs + indexes alone.
